                  האוניברסיטה העברית בירושלים

            THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM

                COMPUTER SCIENCE LABORATORY
                 INSTITUTE OF MATHEMATICS

                    August 17, 1976

Professor M. Ferentz
Physics Department
Brooklyn College of CUNY
Brooklyn, New York 11210
U.S.A

Dear Professor Ferentz:
        After a long wait we finally have a working version of
Unix. That is, for almost four months now we have been working
under Unix, but single user and being extremly careful, because
of our little BUG, which was described in our June 14th letter.
But since yesterday, when an 8k bank of memory stopped working,
and was taken out for repair, with it also went our timing bug.
It will be quite interesting to see what happens when the bank
is again operational. At least our Dec man now knows that it was
a hardware problem all along and Unix is as good as its fame.

        Our lab has:
                1       PDP 11/45 with no floating point
                48k     memory (8k MOS + 40 core)
                1       RK05 ( + one on its way)
                1       DL11
                1       DU11
                1       VT11
                1       VARIAN electrostatic printer/plotter
                3       CDC 714 terminal
                We also have a NOVA 800 with 16k, which among its
                peripherals there is a Diablo Hytipe.

        We have so far developed software for file transfer to the
NOVA and the CDC Ciber (this one belonging to the Computer Center)
which work on an asynchronous interface (DL11), but are working
hard to connect the CDC through a synchronous interface (DU11).
Noel Kropf is responsible for the driver of the VT11 and most
debugging of the system, and since he has left for more fertile
grounds, (i.e Columbia Univ.), we've lost a great help.

        Our main fields will be graphics, communications and compi-
lers so anyone willing to share information on these is welcomed.

        Finally I want to thank David Barach at Yale Univ. for making
us feel that we weren't alone in our struggle.

                                                Sincerely

                                            D B
                                            Daniel Braniss
