                                  -2-


         NOTE:  These measurements should be taken with the under-
         standing that the installation measured has a very fast
         swapping device and plenty of memory.

     6.  Ken indicated that the group concept for protection is soon
         to be abandonded.  Instead of 8 group bit and user ids, there
         will be sixteen bit user ids.  If the high order bit of the
         user id is 1, then the next seven bits will define a "class."
         A user who is a member of a class can only reference files in
         that class ,plus those files in class 0 (public files), and
         then only subject to the usual interpretation of the pro-
         tection bits.

     7.  There is in C an undocumented keyword, "long."  Long floats
         are double; long ints are 32 bit integers.  Long adds are
         compiled in line, multiplies and divides call procedures which
         are not yet in the library.  The code may be buggy.


Many of the attendees described work in progress at their installations.
A few of the more important developments:

     1.  At Rand:

         a.  Rand has a two-dimensional text editor which runs on 9600
             baud CRT terminals.  It will run at slower speeds without
             modification, but 1200 baud is probably too slow.

             The philosophy of the editor is to display a "window" of
             the two-dimensional text.  By means of cursor control
             buttons (arrow keys), the cursor can be moved to a desired
             location and text entered merely by typing it in.  Various
             function buttons are used to:

                 open or close space (lines or blocks)
                 move the window forward, backward, and horizontally
                  over the text
                 delete characters
                 search
                 insert characters
                 create new windows on the same or other files.

             The editor is coded so that terminal handling is done by
             a module which can be changed to comply with the specifi-
             cations of terminals other than the Ann Arbors used at
             Rand.  (This was done at Yale.)  Such terminals must have
             cursor control capability.

             The editor operates on single keystroke commands, and
             therefore runs in raw mode; thus it imposes a somewhat
             heavier load on the system than ed.
