                                             Western Electric

Administration                               222 Broadway
                                             New York, N.Y. 10038
                                             212 571-2345 [handwritten: -3912]
                                                          [handwritten:  6108]
                                                          [handwritten:  6109]
                            December 12, 1974

Mr. R. J. Collins
Department of Computer Science
UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA
Winnepeg, Manitoba, Canada   R3T 2N2

Dear Mr. Collins:

Thank you for your telephone request of December 11, 1974
regarding the UNIX Time-Sharing System.

It is our current practice, in appropriate circumstances,
to honor requests by nonprofit educational institutions
for royalty-free licenses for selected Bell System soft-
ware.  However, the sole authorized use of such software
pursuant to such royalty-free license is limited to
"academic and educational purposes".  Accordingly, all
other uses of such software, such as administrative
or commercial uses (including, without limitation, all
uses for research funded or otherwise supported in whole
or in part by a third party in consideration for access
or rights to the fruits of such research), by or on behalf
of your institution are unlicensed whether or not used by
your students or faculty to provide financial support for,
or otherwise in furtherance of, your educational and
academic functions.

If you find these terms to be satisfactory, please provide
me with the specific address of the data center at which
you plan to use this software, and I will have the appro-
proate agreement prepared for your review.

Upon execution of the agreement, we will instruct the Bell
Telephone Laboratories to furnish you with the UNIX operating
system.  The current version of UNIX requires at least the
following equipment:

      PDP-11/40 (with EIS) or PDP-11/45 CPU
      KT segmentation option
      32K words of core
      RK or RP disk
      KW (line or programmable) clock
      Standard DEC console (LA, VT, or LT)
