    As usual, Ken had a number of interesting things to say:

    1) It appears that the group concept is about to disappear
       from UNIX, in favor of 16-bit user ids.  At Berkeley,
       the 16-bit ids are partitioned as follows (with a major
       intent to segragate students from each other, and from
       the rest of the world).

       UID=0:  Super-user (no change)
       UID<0:  Student.  No reference to other student's
               files, only "own" files and "public" files,
               those with owner UID between 1 and 255 (to
               which normal protections apply).
       UID>0   All others.  No reference to students' files.
               Normal access protection applies to all files.

       For class use, the upper 8 bits of the UID is the
       class number.  The teacher has a UID with the low
       order 8 bits 0, and can access students' files.

    2. Disk file quotas:  If a directory contains a file
       named .Q (a quota), then, when the directory inode is
       in use, the .Q inode is associated with it in the
       incore inode table.  The .Q inode contains the
       maximum number of blocks that may be used by files
       in the directory and its decendents, and a count
       of the number of used blocks.  A subdirectory inherits
       the quota of its ancestors.  A new system call was
       added to make directories with quotas.  There were some
       problems associated with the link operation.  It is
       allowed to exceed quotas temporarily so that the MV
       operation (rename) cannot cause quotas to be exceeded.

    3. A limit was placed on the number of active processes
       that a user can own.  (Enforced in the fork operation:
       while searching the processor table a count is made.)

    4. Ken noted a circumstance under which locks on
       inodes were not honored within the kernel.  He went
       through the kernel and located a number of other
       places where the same potential for failure exists.
       The fixes will appear in the next release.

    5. An interesting technique for measuring disk activity
       was devised.  It involves keeping a software busy
       bit for each of n devices (major or minor) in the
       low order bits of a word.  The word is used as an index
       into a "time" table of 2**n 32 bit integers.  Each
       time a clock ("uncorrelated" with the scheduling
       clock) interrupts, the selected "time" entry is
       incremented.  As a result, the "time" entries record
       the busy time for each combination of devices.  By
       also counting the number of words transferred and the
       number of transactions on each device, the seek times
       (including latency and transfer times) can be obtained.



                               -4-
